---
layout: post
title: tei 2024 recap 🧶
date: 2024-02-16 14:50:00-0400
description: A tldr and lovely photos of our time in Cork, IE for ACM TEI 2024
tags: news conferences papers
categories: events
giscus_comments: false
related_posts: false
related_publications: Rallabandi_TEI24_BaseStitch, Freire_TEI24_RaveNETWiP, Freire_TEI24_RaveNETPerf
toc:
  sidebar: left

---

We're back from the <a href = "https://tei.acm.org/2024/">ACM 18th International Conference on Tangible Embedded and Embodied Interaction (TEI) </a> in Cork, IE! 🍀

## there and back again 🚢

In an effort to be sustainable, the <a href ="https://sensint.mpi-inf.mpg.de/">Sensorimotor Interaction Group (senSInt)</a> trekked from Saarbrücken across the channel via train to meet me in London, and then we took three trains, a ferry, and one more train to reach Cork and back - that's a total of 7 trains and 2 ferries!

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/ferry.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/train.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/holyhead.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    senSInt on the move from London to Holyhead!
</div>

## papers! 

senSInt presented some excellent research investigating material influences in eTextile interaction and designing wearables for investigating networks in music performance

**<a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3623509.3633363">Base and Stitch: Evaluating eTextile Interfaces from a Material-Centric View</a>** 🧶

- Superstar Vineetha Rallabandi presented her MSc work which investigated the role of base fabrics in guiding gesture and their material agency in interaction with eTextiles.

**<a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3623509.3635270">RaveNET: Connecting People and Exploring Liminal Space through Wearable Networks in Music Performance</a>** 🧢

- Rachel Freire demoed our RaveNET nodes - Bones, a wearable breath-sensing corset for voice, Tendons, a multisensor glove for gestures in bass-playing, and Veins, an EMG-based cap for facial expression - and their design processes.

**<a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3623509.3635337">Liminal Space: A Performance with RaveNET</a>** 🎤

- Along with Paul Strohmeier and Valentin Martinez-Missir, we performed Liminal Space to demonstrate RaveNET in action.

<br>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/rach.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/vinny.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/ravenet.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Some of our tech: Rach showing off the RaveNET nodes during the demo sesson (top, left), Vinny with eTextile swatches used in the Base and Stitch study, (top, right), and some of our RaveNET setup from Monday's performance, showing off the Bones anti-corset (bottom).
</div>

## blarney!

We had an excellent time getting Blarneyed - kissing the stone at Blarney Castle is meant to give the gift of the gab! Hoping that we can use some of that for our future paper writing. 😉

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/blarney.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tei-24/blarney-2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Scenes of Blarney Castle and a wonderful day out, enjoying Ireland's lush green landscape!
</div>


<!-- To add a table of contents to a post as a sidebar, simply add
```yml
toc:
  sidebar: left
```
to the front matter of the post. The table of contents will be automatically generated from the headings in the post. If you wish to display the sidebar to the right, simply change `left` to `right`. -->




